b
can you hear me now
yeah
all right let me know when those
streams live
all right all right hello like thank you
so much for coming and also thank you
for bearing with us we had a few
technical difficulties but we're able to
get it started shortly
you know welcome everyone to the
workshop my name is uncle liu I'm a
program manager at the stella
development foundation and i'll kick off
today's workshop and this weekend's
hackathon
you must know me from the many emails
i've sent you over the past few days
with the result of you either being here
in person or watching virtually
and like so
again thanks all for coming and let's
start off a little bit about sdf
so the Stellar development foundation or
sdf for short is a non-profit
organization founded in 2014
to support the development and growth of
the open source Stellar network and with
seller stf seeks to unlock the world's
economic potential by making money more
fluid markets more open and people more
empowered
the foundation helps Stellar maintain
Stellar's code base supports the
technical and business communities
around Stellar and provides thought
leadership to regulators and other
stakeholders so what is this network
that we're looking to support
Stellar is an open source blockchain
network with the goal to provide
financial infrastructure that's fast
cost effective resilient and most
importantly available and accessible to
anyone regardless of where they live
and this is really important
individual individual payment schemes
are currently not interoperable
in the traditional financial system and
this leads to high fees and delays
especially when transferring value
and it's also inequitable as it excludes
billions of people who currently do not
have access to traditional financial
services
blockchain technology is challenging us
to think about money and value in a new
way presenting the opportunity to make
it better
more effective and more efficient
its use cases go far beyond just
investing in cryptocurrencies and
in much the same way that the internet
democratized access to information
Stellar uses blockchain to democratize
access to the financial system and it
can make sending value around the world
as easy as sending an email
stella was founded in 2014 after bitcoin
Stellar was founded in 2014 after bitcoin
and ethereum
oh sorry i think my mic had some of my
oh sorry I think my mic had some of my
hair
and handles millions of transactions
each day submitted by businesses banks
governments and developers like
yourselves all over the world
to build innovative financial products
and services
to date there are over 90
unique assets issued on Stellar and
there are over 6.6
million accounts in existence
and in 2021 alone
the network processed over two
billion operations from which 155
million are payments
and this shows really that the network
is built to scale and is actively used
and a Stellar is an energy efficient
syncing mechanism specifically designed
for remittances and payments
transactions are processed within
seconds and cost way less than a penny
so what can you actually do with Stellar
on Stellar you can issue your own assets
as tokens on the network
think stable coins like uscc
cryptocurrencies real estate and of
course nfds
practically anything
then you can also trade these tokens
peer-to-peer
using a built-in decentralized exchange
or the recently added automatic market
maker functionality
you can also transform currency as you
send it which is a powerful feature for
cross-border payments
but let's get back to why you're all
here today the Stellar nft hackathon as
the main sponsors of this year's
south by southwest financial 3.0
summit the Stellar development
foundation is sponsoring a 48 hour
hybrid hackathon starting right now that
challenges the experience and newcomers
alike to build a project on Stellar that
incorporates the use of nfts
so we have ten thousand dollars worth in
prizes worth of excellent prizes
excellent Stellar's native currency and
these prizes will will be awarded to the
best implementations of the following
challenges
that combine the best of art and
technology
so let's start with the artist challenge
so first up we have the Stellar nft
artist challenge where you will create
art based on a prompt and mint it as an
nft enlightenment which is an nft
marketplace on Stellar
and so the art prompt that we'll use for
this challenge will embody the spirit of
the metaverse so there is a very
different many interpretations to what
the metaverse actually looks like so we
encourage you to explore your inner
artists and create an image video or
audio file that reflect your version of
the metaphors in whatever form it takes
awards for the most stunning nfts will
be willow win awards totaling fifteen
hundred dollars worth of xlm allocated
by the Stellar dev and nft community
and to participate in this particular
challenge you can scan the qr code or
enter bit.li
Stellar nft artist
and register
but
more relevant to this workshop we have
the Stellar nft wizard challenge where
you will build
innovative nft experiences on Stellar
go beyond just buying and selling and
explore how these composable nfts open
up opportunities for you as a developer
prices totaling
8500 worth dollars worth of xlm will be
awarded to the most interesting
implementations
so to all of you watching right now head
over to stellarnft.devpost.com
and make sure to register today
the deadline for both of these
challenges is sunday march 13th at 2 30
p.m central time so go out there and
build something awesome
and all communications will be in the
Stellar developer discord including the
live chat for today's workshop so
definitely i recommend if you want to
definitely I recommend if you want to
ask any questions
please scan the link or head over to the
steli developer discord
and ask your questions in the workshop
live chat and all of the virtual
identities and in personalities should
have received an email with that link as
well so if you're not able to scan it
please look it up in your email
and now i leave this up for a bit while
and now I leave this up for a bit while
i give the word to tyler to actually
I give the word to tyler to actually
start our nft workshop
all right
i will add my welcome
I will add my welcome
thank you all so much for attending
thanks for your patience while we got
ourselves settled
we're here to talk about nfts
nfts are an incredible economic
innovation being developed on the
blockchain
but as with any innovation there's a lot
of funk mixed in with the fresh
it's my aim today to focus on some of
the interesting use cases for nfts made
possible by the incredible technical
functionality of the blockchain they're
built on
specifically the Stellar blockchain
but who am i my name is tyler van der
but who am I my name is tyler van der
hoeven and i lead ecosystem engineering
hoeven and I lead ecosystem engineering
at the Stellar development foundation
i've been at the sdf for just over two
years but have been building on the
Stellar stack for
almost six years
now
i've built many various production and
experimental products on Stellar
everything from games and developer
tooling to educational resources and
funding programs
Stellar is a vibrant and expressive tech
stack able to handle an incredibly
diverse scope of financial use cases
before we get into the meat of the talk
I'm going to quickly call out our
Stellar developer discord server as well
and ensure that everyone has a chance to
join that
myself and the rest of the devrel team
will be hanging out there this weekend
to answer questions
and help you
as you continue your exciting journey
into Stellar
and once you join that discord the
server you're going to want to look look
for is the workshop live channel
for entering your qa we're going to have
a couple of sessions for q a
today so if you're in that discord
server if you have as you have questions
enter those into that discord server
so we can get to those questions later
on during our q a
all right let's talk road map where are
we headed today
what will we be covering our talk is
going to be divided into three main
sections
we're going to talk about kind of the
theory and background nft's explained
talk about nfts more specifically on the
Stellar blockchain
and then finally we'll have a break in
there and then and then finally we'll
come back to actually create an
innovative Stellar nft so we'll get into
the into the codes
so so firstly we'll dive into nfts
explain more generally so we'll define
some terminology
then we'll cover some basic technical
underpinnings of nfts with a specific
aim of ensuring that we lead with the
tech of nfts and not the hype
this is a cart and horse scenario and we
must ensure the order is correct or will
end up in the funk arena of nfts and
that is
not where you want to be finally we'll
spend a little time covering a specific
use case involving creator economies
this is an area i believe is ripe for
this is an area I believe is ripe for
innovation and upset so as you're
thinking through in your heads what
might i build with nfts or what should i
might I build with nfts or what should i
produce for this hackathon or even
looking beyond
this is an area that I'm particularly
interested in
the goal here simply to to properly
orient our basic understanding of nfts
as technology first before use case and
then to hopefully ignite some excitement
for what the proper orientation will
then allow us to build
next in section two of our talk we'll
pivot our attention to observing nfts on
the Stellar blockchain we'll cover some
basic Stellar terminology to ensure we
don't get too lost in the woods of mumbo
jumbo from there we'll take a closer
look more specifically at the Stellar
chain itself and its unique benefits
as the host chain for your nft
initiatives
next we'll finally we'll spend some
time dissecting an actual nft
live on the Stellar blockchain
observe its anatomy it's technical
composition finally we'll end this
section
the the second section here actually
playing around with with the project
that we're going to be building
later on after the break
the goal here to make a convincing
argument for Stellar is your chain of
choice for your next nft project and to
crack the door
on what they might actually look like in
practice
after this we'll have some we'll have
some time for some questions
and then we'll move into a bit of a
break
finally we'll come back for section
three after the break we'll
come back
start working on our project for the
afternoon we'll actually dive into the
code covering the the layout and design
constraints criteria of our project to
ensure that we're all on the same page
for what we'll actually be building then
we'll dive right into the code as i'll
walk us through the repo that i've
constructed for this project
it'll be a guided tour if you will
through the wonderful world of
innovative nfts on Stellar
finally of course we'll end with a with
that repo and a website
where you can you can all clone that and
play around yourselves
in the hopes that that project will
serve as a good
launch pad for your own innovative nft
projects
all right nfts explained
let's cover some terminology there's
really only three main terms that i feel
really only three main terms that I feel
like we really need to define at the
outset terms that regardless of whether
or not you agree with me or not
are fundamental to our understanding of
the construction and utility of nfts
and these terms are fungible
non-fungible and smart contracts we
won't spend a lot of time
believering these terms I'm just going
to define them for the context of this
talk and then move on
so first fungible fungibility is the
defining characteristic of an asset able
to be divided and interchanged
indistinguishably from other units of
that same asset
so you can think about it like drinking
from a glass of water you can sip more
or less water but it's all just water
each drop is indistinguishable identical
equal to every other drop in the glass
this is traditional this is like
traditional currency so dollars dimes
pennies it's just money divisible
exchangeable and identical in value its
utility is to be an avenue of exchange
for something else it is not itself the
commodity
alternatively you've got non-fungible so
non-fungibility
is aiming to be a commodity or a
collectible
remember nft stands for non-fungible
token so an asset intended to be held
and enjoyed
or at least to be a direct vehicle for
those types of experiences non-fungible
assets achieve this in their nature as
indivisible assets where each one is a
whole on its own
distinguishable and unique
where fungible assets behave like water
non-fungible assets behave more like
tickets
both opening access to experiences and
each one being unique at some level even
as there may be tickets to the same
experience each one may be for like a
different seat
finally that brings us to smart
contracts the final essential term in
the
in the this sort of trifecta of nfts
more generally and this i define as a
more generally and this I define as a
decentralized computer function
controlling cryptographic accounts
this is the the experience engine of our
nft
nfts are the ticket unlocking the
experiences as defined by these smart
contracts this is where all of the
innovation lies in our work on nfts this
is where we begin to do things others
could only dream and hope for in
previous generations what blockchain
gives us is decentralized cryptographic
computer functions
is this this ability to unlock an
entirely new way to interact and
transact within our communities
let's dive into that
a little more
so nfts let's talk about nfts explained
we start at the the fundamental
foundational layer this is the the
programmable contractible decentralized
ticket concept we can move safely and
powerful into a new realm
of behaviors
so
asking questions which must always
return consistent results these aren't
necessarily new questions but they've
never been decentralized and assured to
be consistent before there was always
some third party entity in the middle
able to alter state change the narrative
disrupt the experience what nfts give us
is a tech stack on which to build
consistent programmable experiences
without disinterested or potentially or
eventually nefarious middlemen
and this is a revolutionary concept
and i really want to i really want it to
and I really want to I really want it to
sink in
and it's tough because nowhere else in
our world do we operate like this
absolutely every internet interaction
that we have today operates on fluid
fundamentals prices change fees change
morals change availability changes
culture and ease of access change
nothing is consistent
but math is computer programs are smart
contracts on chain
are
tie that to internet experiences
and you've just changed for the better
every online interaction for everyone
everywhere instantly no if you're not
getting it yet
let's look into an example modern
creator
economies
so consider all the big social media
platforms of our day instagram facebook
tick tock youtube etsy spotify twitch
the app stores
these are all the way that we entertain
ourselves today these are the platforms
where creators get paid
it's where audiences pay to enjoy the
art and creativity of their fellow
humans it's a wonderful thing that these
platforms exist but there's one singular
fundamental flaw
the platforms are fluid there's no
consistency or guarantee the only thing
that you can be sure of as a creator and
consumer is that middlemen will squeeze
out maximum profit margins between your
money in and the creator's paycheck out
it's unfortunate
but now thanks to blockchain and nfts
it's unnecessary
the programming the contracts that run
these these platforms could and should
be run on chain wherever the transfer of
value is involved
consistency can and should be added to
ensure the link between creators and
fans is as close to peer-to-peer as
possible and then all decentralized and
and all of it decentralized such that no
single third party can alter the fees
shut down the content and suck as much
life out of the experience as possible
so alternatively to that what we have
today let's consider enlightenment a
decentralized nft marketplace on Stellar
which we'll observe
in use in a bit
the essential monetary transaction
programming is all running directly on
chain
enlightenment the visual interface has
been disassociated from the monetary
compensation model artists and fans can
connect directly via on-chain nft data
there's a world of work to be done
beyond just marketplaces though we
really need to move away from just
curation and discovery to deeper
connections and interactions
with those we already enjoy and
appreciate
so i really consider this to be a
so I really consider this to be a
greenfield space for innovation
and an entirely new way of looking at
creator economies it's really a creator
micro economy where interactions and
experiences are much smaller and more
catered directly between artists and
fans
living room jam sessions kind of versus
just another picture and an endless feed
of content
nfts allow for this we just need to
build for it
so this brings us to our second section
where we move away from nfts more
generally and begin to look specifically
at Stellar
so just like nfts more generally there
are some terminologies some some terms
that we should be familiar with before
jumping into
to Stellar more deeply first is
core
core is the fundamental software Stellar
validators used to run the Stellar
blockchain all the features and
functions describing what Stellar can
and cannot do live here in the core
program
that is Stellar
next horizon the api access point
unpacking core data into a collection of
usable json endpoints for clients to
connect with both on the browser and on
the server
for the applications we'll build on
Stellar most of your interactions when
you're building Stellar applications
will be interacting with horizon at some
level
another one that you'll see pop up a lot
we talked about just a moment ago is
lightmint this is our premier nfc
marketplace which is pioneering nft best
practices for the Stellar ecosystem
another one is ipfs interplanetary file
system
it's the de facto decentralized nft
metadata database so it's not a Stellar
technology
but it is one that we can easily
integrate with when constructing our
Stellar nfts
that's that's one you're going to see
popping up a lot
finally trust lines
this is a Stellar specific technology
these are assets so
trust lines are assets on Stellar they
exist as trust lines for an asset to
exist a holder must first opt in
by creating a trust line to the assets
issuing account this is accomplished via
a change trust operation which we'll
observe later on when we dive into our
project
so these are terminologies you're going
to see popping up a lot in different
documentation
and we'll cover some of these in more
detail later on
next why build on Stellar
there are many reasons you might choose
to build on Stellar not least of which
are things like Stellar being fast
accessible affordable lean secure
scalable compliance friendly and
reliable
however of all these significant
benefits there's one often unsung hero
in this entourage of excellence that i
would really like to highlight and that
is that Stellar is equitable
Stellar is a purpose-built blockchain on
a mission to become the global payment
standard
and at the floor of this objective is
the fundamental technical requirement
that Stellar maintain accessibility
the only way to become a global payment
standard is if everyone in the world is
able to access and benefit from the
chain
from this foundation of accessibility
comes reliability
but i don't i don't really mean or i
but I don't I don't really mean or i
don't just mean that the network stays
up i more primarily mean the reliability
up I more primarily mean the reliability
that comes from the actual governance
structure
of the Stellar chain
blockchains are expensive
and validators shoulder that cost
the node's running the core software and
actually providing the decentralization
of our network
in most other chains the compensation
for this service is provided in the form
of transaction fees where validators are
paid by the network for running the
network
it's a reasonable model but it has one
glaring flaw in that now validators are
directly incentivized to ensure the
network is maximizing their profit
returns
for running the network versus using the
network
so in this world high fees and
inefficiencies are a good thing for
validators
on Stellar this struggle is nowhere to
be seen because the network validators
have the same incentives as the users
they derive profit from their own
projects using Stellar versus
those validators actually running
Stellar validators are not paid by
Stellar they are paid same as you to
build profitable businesses on the
network
this fosters a network of low fees and
innovation for improving network
efficiencies
when we all make money the same way
we're all aligned on the same mission we
have a recipe for consistent reliable
and an accessible
an accessible network for building
long-term
legitimate profitable businesses
finally let's let's move away from
theory to some practice
what does an nft on instiller
actually look like what are the
components necessary to pull one off
there are three primary components
an nft issuing account
the nft metadata or the the link to the
asset
and then there are there's nft issuing
criteria or the smart contract things
like timed auctions the royalty payments
will be building today also things like
holder restrictions if
you have different controls on your
asset
I'm going to walk through the anatomy
of an nft on Stellar
quickly so we're going to jump off of
our slides for a moment
so this is over on lightmint
this is one of my
nft projects that i built way back when
nft projects that I built way back when
i was getting started
I was getting started
it's just a very simple algorithmic
created
pixel glyph there's some neural network
that's running you can see did a little
phrase and it'll build you an
interesting nft
so it exists as an image a title
description it's got some tags and stuff
if we scroll down here to our details
you can see the ipfs hash right here
which would hold
if we were to click on that it would
pull up an actual json file this is this
is a kind of standard way of describing
an nft from an ipfs hash
so it's got that title description
an image link
if we were to actually open up that
image link you can see the the picture
here on ipfs
if we open up the the actual asset on
Stellar so I'm going to open up Stellar
expert which is a blockchain explorer
for Stellar
you can see the asset right here we've
got our issuing accounts kind of hidden
behind this
our issuing account right here
you can see that ipfs hash that's been
associated with our issuing account so a
Stellar account issues the nft other
users can then open up a trust line for
that asset
at which point the nft
can move to that account whenever it's
sold
there's there's a couple other pieces
of information here if you scroll down
you can see some of the history of the
nft some different operations for when
it was bought
and sold
we've already mentioned the the ipfs
hash there you've got that asset
code
but all kind of going back to that
original
issuing account and then when you're on
lightmint it's just providing this
visual interface to something that
exists on chain so if lightman were to
go down you could very easily spin up
some other interface and begin using
horizon to pull in that in that
information to pull in that data
and show the
show the nft again
so that particular nft is really
primarily it just deals in those first
two elements
an nft issuing account and the
metadata
the the issuing criteria or smart
contract ability of the nft when
interacting directly on the sterile will
be somewhat limiting in that particular
scenario
you have the native Stellar decks for
buying and selling nfts but that's about
it if you want to add more conditions to
the experience of your nft you'll need
to look beyond these
vanilla nfts and move into the realm of
what I'm calling innovative nfts where
you combine arbitrary smart contract
logic with this basic issuing account
and stored metadata
for that
we turn to a project that i launched
we turn to a project that I launched
in fall last year
so nft.klpl.com
i've got a couple of
innovative smart nfts that i've built
we'll go ahead and take a look at that
I'm going to switch over here again so
i've got a few of them
i became interested in nfts background
I became interested in nfts background
august of last year and began just kind
of poking around at what they were what
you could do with them
quickly kind of got bored of just making
art and putting it on chain and wanted
to do something a little different more
interesting more programmed and that's
where smart nfcs came from
the one that we're going to look at
today is called the dig i've only done
three of these
but they're all quite different so i
leave it to you to explore the rest of
those but if we look at the dig
this is a
an nft experience so it's like a social
experiment
experience nft
it's this singular nft that's this pixel
grid 40 by 40 pixels
and the way that you interact with it is
actually by purchasing individual pixels
off of the grid so users will come in
they pick they kind of use the interface
to poke a couple of pixels the ones that
they want to buy
and then as this pic as this nft kind
of becomes minted as it gets as a as
these plot tokens is what they're called
get purchased you get closer and closer
to the final nft you can see right here
we've actually got a few left so the
final nft hasn't actually minted yet
does look like they've kind of uncovered
the wizard in the middle so the secret's
been revealed i guess
been revealed I guess
if i were to log in with my albedo
if I were to log in with my albedo
account which is one of our if you've
ever used metamask this is kind of
similar
you can see my
my plot token that i purchased
my plot token that I purchased
somewhere down in here
so there's a couple of different things
going on in this particular smart nft or
innovative nft
and that is that there is an nft that
will be minted but only after certain
conditions have been met and in this
case there are two
first all of the pixels have to be
minted for this final nft to
to be minted and then second if you
actually want to get this final nft you
have to hold one of these plot tokens so
only plot token holders only people who
participated in the dig will actually be
eligible to hold or claim this final nft
and so you kind of set up this arbitrary
logic within your smart contract
which create this interesting experience
for an nft
if you go and read our
drop document here you can see
i've outlined
all of the different criteria you know
what's going on
for this nft the different operations
within the command if you go and look at
there's a guest that has the
the actual code for the smart contract
there's actually three different
commands in this single smart contract
one for digging up plot tokens
one for minting which you can't actually
run yet because the nft hasn't been
fully dug
and then there'll be another one that'll
open up as well once the mint command
has been run
where you can issue yourself
for free essentially that final nft
if you hold a plot token so you can go
through these different
functions here that actually provide the
criteria under which those individual
commands can actually be run
so again i've done a couple of these
they've all been a lot of fun
to really start to explore what can
we do beyond just putting art on chain
you can build these little
microcosmic experiences these little
games where yes it might be pretty
focused there may not be millions of
people that interact with this
but you don't need that if you can build
something interesting and something
focused
you can get your small community your
people to get engaged with the content
that you're generating without having to
go through any specific third party
next
so
that's that's the the kale pale
collection it's it's quite fancy
but it's a little bit too deep for our
first stab at an innovative nft for for
our time here this afternoon
for that we're finally going to turn to
the afternoon's task at hand
and that's the project that we'll be
covering today an innovative royalty
payments
nft project
so I'm going to walk through this real
quick before we have some questions
again if you've got questions make sure
you're in that
discord
pop those into the chat we'll answer
those in just a moment
but I'm going to walk through the
project that we're actually going to be
building
today so this is a royalty payments nft
project
so i've got an account
over in our gorgeous interface
i've got a user account that i've
generated
so this is this is going to be the
original minting account
for the nft
or the nfts that this account mints if
you remember each nft has its own
issuing account so we're going to go
ahead and generate a brand new issuing
account
which will be the the host of our new
nft that we're about to mint
the next thing we're going to need is an
ipfs hash
and I'm using
nft.storage
to host my nfts
the images
and i've gone ahead and uploaded one
here
I'm gonna grab that
we've got our new issuing account right
here
funded
we'll put in this ipfs hash and then
we'll click mint and when we do
that ipfs hash will be attached to the
issuing account that we just generated
up above
kind of bundling it all together and
then issuing my user account
this brand new
nft so we'll go ahead and do that
and this is actually happening right now
on chain
all of these nfts are actually going on
to it's right now the Stellar test net
but we've actually literally gone and
minted a brand new nft on the Stellar
test net so there it is that's my nft
I'm going to go ahead and sell this I'm
going to sell it for
100 xlm you'll remember
that we're actually
adding a 10 royalty so what's 10 of 100
it's 10 so this nft will actually be
being sold for 110
xlm if we go and open up
an alternative
browser here I'm going to pull this over
I'm also going to open up
one more
just so that we have some
browsers to work with let's go ahead and
refresh this we should see that
nft available for sale right there
oh
and we'll do the same on this browser
we can see those nfts
available to purchase I'm going to go
ahead and buy this one so this is
we will go down 110 here and we should
go up 110 for the account that actually
owns it
so we'll
make that purchase over on this page
we're able to sell it now because
we're the owner if we refresh this
browser over here and I'm actually just
going to shrink this down for a moment
we can see that that now has 110. if we
sell this let's say we'll do 50
they're going to sell their xlm at a
loss bummer
and then we'll refresh this page we'll
should see 55 because it's the the 50
plus the five for the 10 royalty
and if we buy this what should happen
this account should receive
50 and this account should actually
receive five because the royalty payment
is going from
the purchase here where five goes over
to the original minter as a royalty
payment and then 50 goes to the user
who's actually selling so we should see
this go up by 50
and this one should go to 10 1 5
and that's exactly what happened so our
contract is working
the nft is actually being able to
it's being sold between these two
accounts so these two accounts
interacting directly with each other not
involving the minting account at all and
yet this account is consistently
receiving its royalty payments as the
nft is sold
by other users
so this is this is what we're going
to be building today
after a little bit of
q a so if you're interested excited
intrigued
i know i am
I know I am
but before we before we go to that
we're gonna we've kind of gotten a taste
we've gotten a nice overlook of nfts in
general
nfts on Stellar we'll take a a quick
moment for some for some q a off of our
discord server
we'll take a break for about 15 minutes
or so
and then we'll come back for our
afternoon of actually looking at looking
at the programming looking at the code
thank you
all right
do we have questions off of discord are
we good
let's go ahead and start oops let's
let's start with
some discord ones
nope
no in fact the application we'll be
building will not be fully decentralized
for sake of making it a lot simpler to
actually initiate
but adding decentralization
isn't super difficult so it's but
it's not required for the hackathon
yeah sorry the question is does the
go let's go back just real quick to the
first question so that i can read that
first question so that I can read that
off again
no no just ask me the first question
again just so i can get it for the folks
again just so I can get it for the folks
on online does it need to be fully
decentralized so the question was does
the application does the hackathon
app need to be fully decentralized for
it to be valid and no it does not
it's fine if it's running
centralized so long as it's actually on
Stellar
and then the second question
was
do they need to have like a user
interface
for interact there needs to be something
that we can actually test and use and
building a gui is probably a really good
way to do that if you've got like api
docs that might be sufficient but there
has to be something for us to actually
test and play around with so
i would say a soft yes there needs to be
I would say a soft yes there needs to be
something to play with
good question anything else
all right do we have any questions
from the audience anybody have anything
pressing on their mind before we move
to a break
all right perfect
we will move to a break and then come
back in about 15 minutes or so and start
diving into our actual project
okay
all right
all right we're gonna jump back to our
seats
or you can stand you know
if you want
all right so who's ready to start
getting into some code
before we do though
i've got two slides left that i want to
i've got two slides left that I want to
cover about both the technical blueprint
for a project along with the
relationship between how our seller nft
exists and it's like the relationship
between our seller nft and what I'm
calling the nft auth server
so first the design
of our nft
so what we're going to build
what we're going to build is
an application that configures an
issuing account
attaches metadata to it
issues that nft
and then finally obviously it will
require that all sales of the nft
sends back a 10 royalty payment to the
original minting account whenever the
nft is sold
next how we're going to build it there's
going to be a client interface so this
is the website or marketplace for our
royalty payment nft
and we're also going to build an
authorization server
so that'll be that the authorization
server auth server is a Stellar
transaction builder
that opens and closes authorization for
our innovative nft ensuring that royalty
payments are in fact being issued
whenever the nft
is sold
so finally tying this all together
let's talk a little bit more about
about our auth server as it relates to
asset authorization controls so there
was a question about
decentralization
so let's talk about that just a little
bit
seller's design includes account and
trustline controls
there are a few different types of
controls
that assets can have but in our case
we're going to configure full control
where an asset exists
as an entirely permissioned asset
its movement then its ability to be
bought sold and even held is entirely
under the control of the issuing account
this will allow us to insert our royalty
payment logic in between
some authorization operations when
building Stellar transactions
so the transaction building will be
taking place on our auth server
right now this auth server will be
hosted by us
not very decentralized
but for those taking notes this
liability can be removed right now via
an ecosystem initiative called Stellar
turrets
which takes the auth server smart
contracts that we'll be building and
executes them on a decentralized network
of servers
alternatively
the seller development foundation sdf
has recently announced an exciting
new initiative code named jump can it
project jump canon which will bring this
auth server functionality straight to
layer one
so in a word smart contracts directly on
Stellar
with our nft design understood and the
foundations of asset authorization laid
we can finally turn to our code editor
to begin walking through the repo
containing our innovative royalty
payments
project so I'm going to switch real
quick to
mirror my displays
so that i can
so that I can
code here
all right
so inside our project and i'll give you
the repo if you haven't already found it
yet
some of you
aggressive personalities probably
already found my repo
but I'm going to be walking through the
repo i'll share it with you
afterwards
but try and follow with me as we walk
through the project that we have and
then when you get your own
version of the repo you can kind of dive
through what we've got so we've got two
different directories here one is our
client and one is our server the client
obviously being the front end of the
application and the server being the
back end auth server for our application
let's go ahead and start
on the client side
so this would be the website when we
load in
something like our
application not sure why that's
there we go
this guy right here
and so let's walk through that i've put
some comments in the most
used parts of the the application
so I'm not going to talk about css or
html much today so we'll go ahead and
close those ones up
what i want to walk through more
what I want to walk through more
particularly
are the actual methods that we're using
to mint an nft
and then offer or trade the nft so those
are the two primary functions happening
in our
frontend application right where you can
mint a brand new nft and then you can
offer it for sale you can buy it so
there's really just two interactions but
the first thing
before we can even get to that minting
of an nft is when we actually click
generate
for creating a new public key so inside
of methods i've got three javascript
files that i
want to walk through the first one being
creating an account
so this this is triggered by the buttons
that you click
when you generate or regenerate kind of
create a new user account
and that lives inside of this
method right here so let's walk through
it and a lot of this is like once we've
covered one of these the way that you
build Stellar transactions is kind of
always the same so it'll start to feel a
little bit repetitive but that's a good
thing
when we initially create an account what
we need to do is generate a brand new
key pair so 910 here
we generate a new public private key
pair for for Stellar
and since we're on test net we can use
friendbot to go ahead and create that
account so that it exists on changes
because you have a
valid public private key fair doesn't
mean that it automatically exists on
chain you need to fund it you need to
get it
into a state where it exists on chain it
can begin to receive or be the issuing
account for an nft or hold nfts
so we're using friendbot here to do that
where we actually get some free it's
kind of like a faucet if you've ever
used those before
get some free test net lumens
so we call that
then we're going to load up
the account
to get its status as on chain so after
we've created it we can then call it to
load up its current state on chain
if we're clicking the button where it's
just generating a new user account we go
ahead and exit out of
the then statement
and we just say super duper thanks for
the new account and i'll assign it to my
user
that's what happens when you click on
this generator regenerate button right
here
if however you are actually
creating a new issuing account we need
to do a little bit more
what we need to do is create the
account and then we actually need to
associate a brand new signer to that
account so Stellar has a multi-sig built
right in at layer one
where you can attach multiple signers
when you initially create a public
private key pair
the secret key you create for the public
key those two things are connected when
you go and fund it that private key is
what gives you access to do anything
with the public key make payments send
operations etc
but you can also associate other private
keys other keys to that account where
they also will have control over that
account and in our case that's what we
need to do remember every nft
has
its own issuing account so in your nft
project scenario you've got
dozens hundreds of
individual nfts but each one of those
needs to be controlled by this
authorization server where it's kind of
inserting itself in the middle saying
like oh
before you do anything we need to make
sure that if the sale is happening that
an nft a royalty payment is going back
to the original mentor you can't just
do whatever you want with this nft
there's an authorization server sitting
in the middle
that's ensuring royalty payments go out
whenever it's appropriate
and so for that
check to happen you need
you need a signer
but rather than storing
hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of
secret seeds in your database we're
going to attach one
to every single issuing account so every
single new nft that we mint we're going
to add this same
authorization server
signer that will now act as
the intermediary sort of saying okay i
have permission to sign for this nft
anytime you're trying to do something
with it
and so before that can happen we need to
add this signer to each of these new
issuing accounts and so that's what
we're doing right here on line
28 through
we're adding this new set operations
operation so right here in this block in
this if block we're building a new
transaction for the new account that we
just created we're on testnet here you
can read a little bit more information
about fees or network passphrases and
then on this transaction we're adding a
single
operation and this is the set options
operation where this signer is added
this signer comes from
an environment variable on the client
side which is the public key
for the auth servers signer
that auth server signer again being that
single signing key that will be attached
to every single new nft that's minted so
now the auth server has control over
every single nft that's being issued
hopefully this is sending off some red
flags in your mind this is where the
decentralization piece will come in
right you don't want one account
controlling every single nft on your
platform
so in the Stellar turrets model which i
mentioned before you actually add lots
of different signing keys each holding a
different weight of the threshold right
so if the if the account has let's say a
weight of 10 and each of these signers
has a threshold of one you would need 10
to agree before anything could happen
with that nft
in the on-chain smart contract model the
actual account itself would be
controlled by the code there wouldn't
necessarily be
some signer it would be the contract
itself which would control the account
the the contract would act as a signer
and so this right here super useful
really interesting but this is where the
decentralization piece becomes really
important if you were to try and ship
this
more widely
moving on after we build our transaction
we can then get it signed
and then submit it to the network
where this issuing account now has the
signing key
for the authorization server
at that point our account is fully ready
to have nft data associated to it
and that's where api mint command comes
in
so we move after we create our account
we go to api mint this is what comes in
whenever you have your ipfs hash
input there will be a button for minting
that will pop up
we don't want to mint until we actually
have an ipfs hash so if we actually were
to click this
i don't think abc is probably a valid
I don't think abc is probably a valid
ipfs hash but
my check is not particularly
intelligent there's something here
and so then the mint button becomes
available that button
fires off this api mint
function
inside here we're actually all we're
doing is calling our authorization
server
because we need to set up this new
issuing account with the ipfs hash that
we want to attach which becomes the the
representation of what our nrft actually
behaves as
so this we're going to look at this on
the server but this is a a fetch command
that's made to our auth server
we're going to pass it the user account
the issuer account that ipfs hash
that we we input
and then it's going to go to the auth
server the auth server is going to make
a check make sure everything looks fine
it's going to the out server is actually
going to build the transaction so we
don't build the transaction on the
client side we want to really be sure
that the transaction that's being built
is exactly what we want it's kind of the
building a smart contract on the fly if
you will so the request goes to the
server the server will build this xdr
will build this transaction the Stellar
transaction according to whatever your
smart contract logic is and then send
that transaction back to the client for
any final signatures that might be
needed for that transaction to be valid
in our case the user needs to sign it
and we'll look at why that's the case
in a moment when we go to the server to
see what transaction is actually being
built
finally then just like before
once it's signed we can submit it to the
network
at this point i think it's probably
at this point I think it's probably
worth actually going to the server and
looking at what's going on here there's
not a lot
that's going on inside of our server we
have some environment variables which
actually denote
those
signer secrets there's also a sponsor
secret which we'll look at in a minute
but this is the signer secret this is
the actual signing key that will be the
authority for all of the nfts that are
issued from our project
this is the signing key that will be
that will be added to any xdr in each
Stellar transaction xdr
seller transaction same thing that will
be
generated from the back end of our
application from our auth server
we've got an index here which is our
router just a very simple collection of
some routes you can see contract right
here and then based off of the command
of mint or offer
it'll go here and then there's a little
switch statement if it's a mint it runs
the mint
function if it's an offer it runs the
offer function and those
exist inside of the contracts directory
and so let's go ahead and look at our
mint
function here on the server
and so this is going to look kind of
familiar remember that the Stellar
sdk that we're using this Stellar base
in this case
works on both the client and the server
side
so what you will build when you build
transactions on the client it'll be very
similar to how you build it on a server
we go ahead and
instantiate the function here this mint
function we can gather our
arguments you'll notice these look very
similar to what we passed in on the
client side
we gather those put them into some
consts
we instantiate nft as our asset this is
going to be the
nft asset that we're actually going to
issue that this issuing account is going
to send out it's going to be called nft
that'll be the code for it
and then we go and make a quick fetch
on horizon itself looking up this
account
got to make sure that it actually exists
and then once we pull in that
information we can begin to use
that account's information so that the
user account they're going to behave as
the source for any fees that are
incurred when we actually submit the
transaction to the network
and then once we have that
it's time to actually begin building out
our
transaction
so Stellar transactions exist kind of
these envelopes that you put operations
into
transactions on Stellar are atomic which
means you can put lots of different
operations into a Stellar transaction
this kind of chain of events and either
all succeeds or it all fails together
you don't kind of have a partially
successful Stellar transaction the whole
thing succeeds or fails together and
this allows you to build some really
complex and relational logic in your
transaction you can build you can
include up to a hundred operations so
that's a lot of logic that you can
include into a seller transaction and
again it will all succeed or fail
together you kind of you don't have to
do this like oops it failed at this
point now we need to like reverse go
back up the chain and undo whatever we
did before
and this becomes really important when
we start getting into the offer contract
right here we've got a collection of
these different operations inside of our
mint contract and the first one you'll
notice is set options
where we are setting flags an inflation
destination and then the source
the flags here
this is where we're actually locking
down the issuing account we're saying
this asset is an authorized asset it's a
controlled asset no one's allowed to do
anything with this asset unless the
issuing account permits it unless we say
so
you can look there's a couple of
different flags that you can set
inside of the set options you can look
those up later but 15 that's kind of our
max right now we're I'm allowed to do
anything is the issuing account i have
anything is the issuing account I have
full control over this asset
the inflation destination
Stellar used to have an inflation
mechanic that was retired by the
ecosystem decided that it wasn't all
that helpful but there's still a field
that exists on Stellar accounts that you
I'm kind of now sub-opting I'm taking
it over and I'm using it to store
the address for the the original mentor
so that when we come back in the future
and we're trying to make offers i know
and we're trying to make offers I know
who am i supposed to send the royalty
who am I supposed to send the royalty
payment to this is where I'm going to
store that
so I'm going I'm gonna go ahead and
include it right here the user account
the original minter
next up we've got a manage data
operation where that ipfs hash is being
stored nothing fancy going on there
you've got a name and a value so ipfs
hash so we know what it what key to look
for and then the value of that
we're going to change trust if you
remember trust lines this is where this
is going to come into play
you've got we're going to put this on
put this on the user account the user
account now is opening up trust for the
nft right so the issuing account in this
minting transaction is going to the nft
is going to exist
but a user still needs to trust it the
user doesn't hold the nft yet the
issuing account needs to send it but it
can't send it
unless the user trusts it first so
that's what we're doing here in change
trust we're opening up a trust line
for the nft
next there are trustline flags this is
where
this is kind of the magic part of an
authorized asset anything that exists
between the set trustline flags
authorized true and authorized false
this is kind of the
what do i want to allow
what do I want to allow
that i couldn't
that I couldn't
if this asset were not authorized so
because this is an authorized asset
now I'm allowed to insert arbitrary
logic in between in our case it's a
royalty payment so
I'm trusting the user account to hold
this asset yes they're allowed to
and
inside of this authorization I'm making
a payment
I'm going to send to the nft now that
it's trusted I'm going to send the nft
back to
the user for for one one nft that
they're going to hold and then I'm going
to lock that asset back down immediately
so they can hold the asset the asset
exists in the user account but they're
not allowed to do anything with it they
can't burn it
they can't sell it
the only way they're going to be allowed
to do anything else with this nft is to
go back to the issuing account and get
some authorization to do something with
it
so at this point again because it's
atomic you kind of have this chain of
logic that's going down of these
different operations that are happening
we open up the trust line
we authorize it
we send the payment and then we
de-authorize it so the user now has it
once this transaction executes but they
can't do anything with it
finally then we've kind of bundle up
this whole transaction into
the the xdr that we send back to the
client so this is where we take that
transaction we convert it
xdr is kind of like json it's a little
bit more compact but same sort of thing
where you're just taking some
instructions and encoding it into a nice
little package that you can send back
to the to the client in this case
so that is our mint
method
and so at this point once we've minted
an nft
the user holds that nft they can't the
the original minter holds that nft they
can't do anything with it
except whatever the
authorization server allows for and the
only thing in this case in our case that
the authorization server allows for is
this api
offer function
and this is where you can start to get
really creative like minting the the
process that i've used for minting will
kind of be the same
you need to have an authorized asset
that you
can now control what it's allowed to do
so that people can't just bypass your
royalty payments or whatever other logic
you have
but after it's been authorized after you
know that you have an asset that is off
controlled now you can insert whatever
kind of logic you want
in our case we're going to do royalty
payments but you've seen previously i
had a whole bunch of random arbitrary
logic inserted between authorizing open
and closed in different transactions
so this is where you're really going to
start to look at what kind of creative
interesting things do i want to do
interesting things do I want to do
in my case it's royalty payments so
let's look at that
when you actually go to
on the client side so we're back
inside the client application
we've got this api offer method so let's
just walk through it briefly
you've got a sell side or a buy side so
there's two things that are going to
happen when you have an nft either
you're going to be selling it or you're
going to be buying it those are the only
two things you can do
and if you're the only way you can
buy it is if somebody else is selling it
and so we're going to assume that if you
don't have it
if you if you do have it that you're
selling it and if you don't have it
you're buying it right so there's it's a
one of one nft
and so if it does exist
out there as an offer you're going to
be trying to buy it otherwise if you
have it you're going to be trying to
sell it
and so here if you're selling it
you can enter the the sale price for it
i don't actually have any nfts at the
I don't actually have any nfts at the
moment i think if i go to
moment I think if I go to
one of my i think
one of my I think
this one
holds it at the moment
so i can go and sell that
so I can go and sell that
that little modal pops up we'll put in
that hundred and then this one will be
for sale and we can move
into seeing that
on this page here
where we have the option to buy it so
when we sold that right then this is the
modal that popped up we're on the buy we
were on the sell side
we configure our price we make sure that
the price is actually something valid
we need to go and find the issuing
account because that's the account
that's going to hold information about
who the
royalty payment should be going to
it's also going to include what nft
are you selling
and do you actually own it do you have
the right to sell it
next up we actually call
the the auth server
contract offers we have mint and we also
had offer this one is offer
we've got a couple of different
arguments here you got your user account
issuer account the offer id you can
delete open offers
otherwise you'll be creating a brand new
one
the price that you're inputting
in our case that was that was 100
and then depending on whether or not
it's a buy or a sell you're either going
to be buying an nft
or you're going to be
buying i guess xlm right so
buying I guess xlm right so
it's always going to be putting out this
offer of i want to give an nft and
offer of I want to give an nft and
receive xlm or i want to get an nft
receive xlm or I want to get an nft
and give
xlm
these are some of these things are
hard-coded if you wanted to get more
complex and do other assets you
absolutely could it doesn't have to be
done in xlm you can use other assets
there's loads and loads of them as you
saw previously
in our example to keep things simple we
are doing xlm for nfts but just be aware
that it's not that difficult actually to
open up access for for assets other
than just native xlm
then just like before we're going to
make that call to the auth server
everything's going to we're going to
check everything make sure it's all
legitimate then that auth server is
going to build a transaction and send
that xdr back to the client
the client will then sign that
sign that transaction and submit it to
the network
so this point
we should actually look at
that particular
contract over on our
server
so this is the
this one right here is the offer
so there's a little bit more going on
here but it's not still not that complex
essentially we're trying to achieve the
same thing we're trying to build an xdr
which is either going to sell an nft
or buy an nft
depending on this the state
and the requester the actual user
account that's coming in and the
whether or not the that user holds or is
looking to hold the nft
so we set up some very basic checks we
get the parameters from
the request
maybe some of those comments and then
what we do here very similar to what we
did before we go to the horizon we load
up the account the user account is going
to be the source of this transaction so
they will consume any fees again
for this transaction
then we're going to look up the nft
balance for the user account again this
is going to be this toggle that if you
hold the nft you're going to be a seller
if you don't have the nft you're going
to be a buyer
we need to make sure that the user
regardless of whether or not they're
buying or selling like you can't do
anything with an nft if you don't hold
it remember we need that trust line
opened to be able to do anything with
this nft so the very first thing we're
going to do is check
if you don't have an nft balance we
definitely need to open up a trust line
for that
so we do that first
the next thing again regardless of
whether you're buying or you're selling
you need permission from the auth server
to do anything with this asset and so
we're going to open up that trustline
flag again and say
as long as this trustline flag is open
so long as you have permission you're
authorized anything that comes next
you're allowed to do and then we'll lock
it back down again at the end
and so we open up that kind of
regardless of whether you're buying or
selling you're going to need
permission so we're going to open up
that authorization
and then we do the toggle
of whether or not you're buying or
you're selling if you have an nft
balance and that balance is greater than
zero if you hold the nft then you are
going to be trying to sell it
we're going to grab
the sponsoring account
and we're going to begin so the sponsor
account we'll get to this in just a
minute
this is actually something very helpful
when we're starting to deal with
horizon and
showcasing data so we'll skip that for
just a moment and come back to it
but if you're a seller of the nft the
thing that you that we really need to be
doing is is manage a sell offer so
there's a Stellar operation called
manage sell offer where you take a
selling asset and a buying asset
an amount that you're trying to sell and
the price that you're trying to sell it
at and then the offer id in our case is
going to be zero if it's not zero you're
going to be deleting the offer
but if you're creating a brand new offer
then that will be zero
so essentially you'll be selling the nft
buying xlm
you'll be selling one whole nft
for whatever price you set on the client
side
and then we're going to close that
sponsorship again we'll come back to
that in just a bit
and so that would be the if statement if
you are selling an entity the only thing
that you need to do if you're selling
the nft is get the nft up on
the the Stellar decks to actually put it
up for sale so that other people can see
it for sale and then offer to buy it
and so if we skip this other else
statement
the only thing the only other thing that
that
that exists in that transaction is to
close
the trustline flags
that we opened up at the very beginning
we closed that so anything that happens
in between in this case the only thing
that's happening is the offer
to open up that offer we lock that down
now the offer exists on the decks but
you can't do anything else with it
you've been given permission by the auth
server
to put that nft up for sale
but now you can't do anything else with
it
and so that xdr that transaction goes
back to the client and then it can be
signed and submitted so if we were
actually
that's what we did
over here when we created the offer you
can see delete offer that would
obviously go take the offer id send it
back up
hey we're we're going to delete that
offer it's removed if we go back and we
refresh we'll see that there are no nfts
available to purchase at the moment
so let's go ahead and
put that back up
so now we've got the ability to sell and
delete offers as an owner of an nft but
what if we want to buy an nft so we've
got either we don't have a trustline
open yet for this nft or we do but it's
zero we don't we don't actually hold the
nft yet
in that case we're inside of our else
statement right
so we've got
either we've got no nft balance or the
balance is
zero less than zero
that's when this else statement
will will fire off
and so in this case what do we need to
do this is where things get a little bit
interesting with our inflation
destination when you hold the nft
and you're offering it for sale there's
no royalty payments involved right i
don't want to make a royalty payment if
the if the nft is not actually changing
hands if nobody's actually purchased it
if it hasn't swapped so in that case no
royalty payment is being made
the only time we actually want the
royalty payment to be made is when a
payment is being made when when the nft
is changing hands
and in that case we need to look up the
inflation destination that comes again
from our issuing account it's stored
inside of the inflation destination from
when we were originally minting
and so we grabbed that inflation
destination that's what's going to be
used in our royalty payment here as the
second op
but the first stop we're actually using
a path payment strict receive you might
wonder why we're not using just a
counter offer and that's because we have
to be absolutely sure
in this case that and that the nft is
actually changing hands right can you
imagine
if we actually made a royalty payment
using an offer but the offer wasn't
actually taken but the royalty payment
was so you would lose your money from
your royalty payment but you didn't
actually get an nft
offers don't have to be taken
necessarily especially if like
the the offer maybe existed but they
deleted it right as soon as you were
trying to take it so your offer went up
to buy an nft but there now is no nft to
take but the royalty payment would still
go through if we were just making an
offer and now there's an offer to sell
the nf
there's an offer to buy the nft
but nobody's at that point in time
selling the nft but your royalty payment
got taken
that would be unfortunate so to cover
that case we're actually doing a path
payment strict receive
and this consumes an offer it is
guaranteed to consume an offer
for whatever criteria you put inside and
if there if it doesn't succeed if you
don't meet the criteria of the path
payment the actual transaction will fail
and so this is a really useful way to
ensure that the nft has actually changed
hands before the royalty payment is
consumed so in this case what's our send
asset we are sending xlm
and we're sending up to
the price for whatever the nft exists as
in our case it's a 55 lumens i think at
in our case it's a 55 lumens I think at
this point
actually it might be 110.
but regardless that's the max we're
willing to send
the destination is our user account and
the source is our user account the the
user is actually doing like a self pay
if you ever done a market order
on coinbase or something this is kind of
what we're doing we're essentially doing
this like auto swap of an asset we're
making a payment to ourself where an xlm
goes out and an nft comes back
the destination asset so what do we want
to receive we want to send xlm and then
have magically come back on nft
and we have to receive we required we
are required to receive one nft so the
whole nft and if we if we don't
then this operation will fail the whole
thing will fail nobody will receive
royalty payments and maybe we'll try
again maybe the the seller of the nft is
pulled back
they're not actually selling the nft
anymore and the whole thing fails if we
do not receive this one nft
then nothing else will succeed
the path path payments can be used
for other things where you can have like
multiple paths multiple hops to go
through
in our case we're just doing xlm to nft
so we don't need any paths
and then finally that source again we're
kind of paying ourselves using xlm and
receiving an nft this is a way to
consume an open offer but guarantee that
we we consume that open offer otherwise
the whole thing fails
and we don't accidentally make a royalty
payment without receiving our nft
once we're guaranteed that we now have
this one nft it's safe for us then to
make a royalty payment again because
this is all atomic this whole thing
succeeds or fails together you can't
you can't sort of
time it or or interes intercept this
transaction and say like oh i got my nft
transaction and say like oh I got my nft
I'm going to kill this transaction and
not make the royalty payment the whole
thing succeeds or fails together
and so at this point we have our nft
in in this transaction at this point
it's safe for us now to make the royalty
payment we're going to make that royalty
payment to the influence inflation
destination
for the selling asset in this case it's
enforced to be xlm
and what's the amount going to be it's
going to be whatever the sale price was
times 10 so if we're selling for 100
it's going to be 10
xlm
once that payment is made we can then
carry on with that logic of closing down
the trustline flags
the user now holds that nft but they
are not allowed to do anything with it
so we're kind of back where we started
where some cool arbitrary logic has
happened in our case royalty payments
has been enforced but now we've locked
down the asset nothing else can happen
until the user then comes back and calls
the offer
api endpoint again and we offer it for
sale again and then someone else can buy
it again but the inflation destination
being that thing that's always going
back that royalty payment always going
back to that original inflation
destination
and so at this point when we come back
into our
api
offer
again they get that xdr back the user
will sign it the user needs to sign it
because they're making a payment and we
need their permission to make that
payment so that user will sign with
their key pair
if you're using something like albedo or
one of those
delegated signing services like metamask
this is where that modal might pop up
and they confirm that they actually want
to sell this I'm encoding putting those
secret seeds in local storage
just to make things a little bit easier
for the user
but if you want to have confirm logic
kind of like that web 3 stuff
you can use
those different delegated signing
services where that secret account is a
c that secrecy is managed by the user
all right so at this point we kind of
have
really all of the logic through just
those two
functions and that original minting
where we assign the signer to the the
the auth signer to the new issuing
account there's not a lot of logic here
it's actually quite simple
you might you'll probably want to do
more interesting things
in your project but
a lot of times and this is actually true
in most smart contract programming there
really isn't a whole lot of fancy stuff
going on
there might be some complex math for
some of these bigger d5 projects but a
lot of this isn't very complex you've
got a client service a user interface
and some really basic logic the thing
that's magical the thing that's really
innovative is when you add
decentralization when you have multiple
machines running these lot running this
logic to where you can't just shut this
down and now anytime this auth server is
called if it's being run by five
different machines one decides i don't
different machines one decides I don't
want to run this anymore the four others
can continue to run it or in the case of
a decentralized
on-chain smart contract
there's there's thousands of machines
that are running this and you can't shut
it down the account is actually
controlled by the machine not by a
single
third party so it's not that the
functionality the contract logic is that
complex it's that it's decentralized
there's lots of people that are like
okaying this that are putting their sign
their signature stamp on this saying yes
we we approve of this transfer of this
asset
i mean most of these are less than 100
I mean most of these are less than 100
lines of code and you can get away with
some really cool stuff in this case
enforced
royalty payments for an nft that can
just exist it's out there it's on
chain any interface that wants to show
it and sell it can use the same logic to
accomplish that it's it's quite
fantastic and again not that complex
there is one more thing though that i
would like to cover
and that's that it's it's true in any
sort of defy
application development where you're
kind of it's not a fight but sometimes
it'll feel like a fight between the the
data that's on chain and how you
actually build an interface around that
data
so you've got all this stuff happening
on chain usually in a very efficient
manner that can sometimes make it really
hard to showcase that
in an interface so in our case
we have a bit of a challenge that i
haven't discussed
and that is actually showing nft
nfts on the interface so when you when
you have this ui
how am i how am i supposed to show
how am I how am I supposed to show
just the offers for my nft project just
the offers that are for royalty payments
why aren't all of the nfts on Stellar
showing up in this interface how have we
gotten it to where it's only showing
ones that are involved in in my project
well the way we do that if we look at
app.view again
there's a method here called update
offers and this is going to you guessed
it update offers that that array of
different nfts
and this is an actual
horizon api call that's getting offers
from the Stellar blockchain so if we
were to go to
laboratory Stellar laboratory really
quickly on test net and explore
the endpoints here we can actually look
at what this api endpoint that it's
calling it's calling this one right here
all offers
now obviously
all the offers
is not what we want
we don't want all of the offers because
that's going to be literally all of the
offers on sellers these are not just the
ones that are involved in my nft project
so how am i going to filter
so how am I going to filter
all of the offers on Stellar to only
show just the ones that are involving my
project
we might think you could filter by like
some sort of nft code or something
and that's actually a it's a good
assumption so it's not a bad one you
could maybe use like nft code
or some some special code the problem is
now you're open to an attack vector
right so if you used the nft code where
you just said like nft any any asset
that uses a code nft
is going to be part of this project
or you could you could you know use your
name nft the problem is there's an
attack vector now that anybody else like
if they want to like insert them their
nft into your project they just need to
name their nft after the naming
convention that you've used
so somehow you need to
use something that's like official
that's secure that only your project
knows as a filter mechanic so that
nobody else can insert themselves and
say like I'm going to issue an nft
that's actually a scam and get my way
into your project this is a real
legitimate concern when you're building
projects in open on a decentralized
network it becomes kind of tricky
because everybody knows what your
project looks like everybody knows what
your asset codes are
and so you have to use cryptography you
need to use something that's like signed
something that only you have permission
to do to be able to build out filter
mechanics for your ui
so in our case what we're doing is using
sponsorship
sponsorship is something
that exists on Stellar where a sponsor
will say
whatever the the fee is to put this on
chain right so you have to stake a
certain amount of lumens to to hold
things on chain so an account is one
lumen trust lines and offers are half of
a lumen to actually have them exist on
chain on Stellar
and so a nice mechanic to to offload
that from your users is to use
sponsorship where your service account
can say like hey I'm gonna i'll take the
brunt for you i'll sponsor those things
for your user account so your users kind
of
insulated from those fees but another
nice feature of this is that sponsorship
can only happen if it's signed for
you can't just add a say like hey you
sponsor my account please it has to be
signed for i need to give permission for
signed for I need to give permission for
your account to be signed for so we can
actually use this functionality to
sponsor the offers
for these nfts
now they're signed for
so that when we go to horizon we say i
would like to get all the offers i only
would like to get all the offers I only
want the offers that are sponsored by a
specific account and that specific
account is something that i the auth the
account is something that I the auth the
authorized
account controls and so that authorized
server controls the sponsorship for each
of these offers
and now when we filter we only get the
offers that are sponsored by our account
and so if we go back to our code here
inside of our offer logic that's what
this begin
and end sponsoring future reserves
operations are where we're sponsoring
the user account
with our sponsor account and this is
coming from an environment variable very
similar to the actual
signing secret the the signing server
that was controlling the nft
this is a sponsor signer that's going to
sponsor the offers for these nfts
and so by wrapping this managed sell
offer
inside of this open and close
sponsorship we now have a mechanic a
secure mechanic by which we can filter
our front end to only show offers that
have been issued or that have been
sponsored by this particular sponsoring
account and you're going to see like
there there's only so many there's a lot
of these like little tips and tricks
that can really help building out your
front ends but you're going to find
that if you're not careful building in
public like this building on a
decentralized chain like this there's a
lot of little gotchas and this is really
true on
like fully on-chain platforms where it's
i mean there's just so many little hacks
I mean there's just so many little hacks
that people can use when you don't
control when it's not a centralized
authority that you have complete control
over everything
you're going to have a lot of these
little foot guns but by doing things
like this where you're sponsoring offers
and having kind of these little nuggets
of control you now
can have the interface the the user
interface that you exactly specifically
want so there's a couple of those
sponsorship is a really good one
you'll find a couple others if you go
through the drop docs on my smart nft so
kalepale.com you go through the drop
docs you'll find a few more
that will really help as you build out
and kind of find yourself fighting a
little bit between server and client and
things might work great but if you're
not careful somebody else could say like
ha ha i've found a vulnerability i found
ha ha i've found a vulnerability I found
a way to insert my nfts into your
project
if it's not fully signed for and secured
so that's just a nice little
feature here you'll find a few more but
that's a really nice one
so with that
there there are other pieces here but
they're all commented pretty well again
the the application's not super complex
you've got a client and server there's
instructions for how to run those
I'm going to move now back to
the slide deck
i think this is a qr code for our dev
I think this is a qr code for our dev
discord we're actually moving into the
hackathon
part now so hopefully you'll be able to
build some innovative nfts and actually
get rolling on some of these interesting
and innovative projects
as promised
there is a github repo if you go to
nft.steller.buzz there's a link down at
the bottom
where you can actually grab the
the repo for this and clone it and begin
poking around get comfortable with the
code feel free to clone this and use
this as the base for your hackathon
projects
if you want to again if you go to those
parts where the the
your opening and closing authorization
that's where you may start to choose to
insert your own arbitrary
interesting innovative logic
with that we will move to any qa that
folks have
around anything that we've discussed
today
any
any questions
yep
is
so the question is is there any mechanic
natively on chain
that allows you to ensure that you can't
issue any more of an nft without locking
the account so by locking the account
you essentially remove signers from the
issuing account
such that you can't do anything else
with the issuing account in so if you've
issued if you've said to the world like
hey it's a one of one nft but you've
left yourself as a signer you could go
actually in the future and issue more
nfts i don't think so
nfts I don't think so
right now on Stellar without actually
locking the account there are some
things you can do
with signers that would disable you
from
submitting specific operations like
payment operations where you would
send more nft so you could lock yourself
out of those specific operations through
the signing thresholds
but yeah until we get on chain smart
contracts or you use turrets and give
control of the account over to the
turrets network
i don't think so
anything else
okay the next question is
it cannot
the the question was can the inflation
destination be an array of strings for
multiple accounts it cannot but you
don't have to use the inflation
destination to store your royalty
payment addresses you could use so if
you remember back in the manage data
operation managed data allows you to
assign arbitrary key value pairs inside
of an account and we saw we stored
ipfshash in the ipfs hash for the
metadata for nft as a key value pair in
the metadata
you've got up to 1 000 key value
pairs per account so you could store
your royalty payment addresses inside of
the set options
or inside of the managed data operations
for that account and just put
a bunch of your royalty payment
addresses inside of the managed data
operations instead of using the
inflation destination
yes
the question was can you submit a
pre-authorized transaction so now we're
getting into the weeds
so there are different types of signers
that you can add to a Stellar account
the most obvious one is just other
Stellar accounts but you can actually
also add
preimages for sha 256 hashes and you can
add
transactions so actual
transaction hashes so whenever you build
a transaction xdr a sha
256 hash is generated and you can store
that hash
inside of the signer array of your
account sort of saying i give my
account sort of saying I give my
pre-authorization that if you can ever
find this transaction again i give my
find this transaction again I give my
permission to sign off on it and so what
you could do in this particular scenario
is build a transaction that re-enables
your account that re-adds master signers
that reconfigures the signing thresholds
to your account at some point in the
future
that would then put your account back
into a state where it could issue more
nfts which could be a kind of
interesting scenario because you could
actually flip the script on that a
little bit and say I'm not going to lock
my account but I'm creating a
pre-authorized transaction to guarantee
that at this point in the future i will
that at this point in the future I will
lock my account so give me six months to
figure this out and then at that point
I'm guaranteeing to lock my account with
this pre-authorized transaction that
i've like pushed to the public everybody
can see it and in some at six months in
the future
we will be able to submit this
transaction and it will lock the account
or you can yes do the inverse of that
and unlock your account with that
pre-authorized transaction it's pretty
cool feature but definitely an advanced
one
good question
good any audience questions feel free if
you if you have questions for projects
you're working on
we're kind of moving into our q a
building session
there are no dumb questions just you
know people that didn't ask questions
when they should have
okay
oh let me read that one let me read that
one off offline that one sounds
interesting
we'll go ahead and and wrap up we
have a happy hour coming up we're gonna
i mean the hackathon has already started
I mean the hackathon has already started
so get hacking keep building make sure
you join our developer discord if you
haven't
we'll be around all weekend to answer
questions i'll be milling about for
quite a while to answer questions
excited to see what you guys are
building thanks so much for giving me
your time super bullish excited about
nfts hope you are as well thank you so
much
[Applause]
you